It makes sense to start building a life based on the most solid evidence and timeless truths of life.
It makes sense to start from the highest values of humanity: unity, peace, freedom, dignity, education, ambition.

It makes sense to start from those high values and declinate a few simple and minimal logics, or principles for life: keeping things simple and positive, loving what you have, what you do, who you are and who you encounter along the way.
Gratitude and forgiveness bring the possibility of a true practice of love in everyday life.

Maintaining a scientific rational approach when approaching new problems, as science really is the most effective philosophy: among all methods of thought, it is the most solid and universal.
This means making unbiased observations and making hypotheses to test in the real world: from the most solid premises, one can make new conclusions that are relevant in many ways.

You have to be self-aware to know your basic traits that don't seem to change, monitor your behaviours and beliefs over time to define your strengths and weaknesses.
For example, I am very good at being self-aware and analytical, and I am pretty bad at mental calculus.
I am fundamentally deeply introverted and I am very successful in my social life at the same time.
I am good at achieving an internal balance in performing effective thinking activities while maintaining a clear mental dissociation from my thoughts.
I was born in a priviledged family environment and I started earning my way up from zero income or cash from 20 years old.
I seem to be living in the extremes.

I agree that we should strive for greater collective enlightenment and I think that starts with individual enlightenment.
But once we are enlightened, there is indeed much we should strive to do to continue being our true enlightened selves.
We should strive to be the best version of ourselves, keep on the great values of humanity and expand our questions.


Also, basing our views solely on the facts and being careful to avoid non-fact-based wishful thinking, then we surely are to conclude that there is no God, there are no aliens, there is no afterlife.
Everything we see - through our own eyes or through microscopes and telescopes - is actually everything we can tell with certainty that exists.
We should not stop questioning and looking beyond our knowledge, but neither should we attribute a sense of certainty (even if it's probabilistically very likely) to things we can only imagine.

So I don't believe in aliens, God, afterlife, spirit, as there is no evidence for those things.
Same goes with the past and the present.
In fact, all there really is for me is nature being alive in the present moment, and this includes the consciousness of it all.

"There are two mathematically equivalent ways of describing each physical law: either as the past causing the future, or as nature optimizing something." (Max Tegmark, Life 3.0)
The math behind the second way is tougher than say, classical physics, and therefore is not usually taught nearly as often, but it is more elegant and profound.
In fact, the major example of nature maximising a quantity is entropy, which can be thought of as "disorganization" or "messiness" resulted by atoms being far apart and energy being dissipated away.
No wonder then, that life tends towards being messy.
From my own experience, as soon as you look for patterns of how your life works, by the time it's late in the evening that same day you will find other patterns which indicate possibly very contrasting principles by which to live your life.
(In fact, this very "pattern recognition" I just made may very well be the epitomizing evidence of this entropic tendency).

In fact, all orderly structures and patterns we find or create (in the worlds of molecules and of ideas) are as coveted by the mind as they are fading illusions from the perspective of Life itself.
Also, nature's intrinsic drive to increase entropy explains why time seems to have a preferred direction.
 - COMPLETE WITH LIFE 3.0 pg 252 -
 
 
 2 important questions:
 WHO AM I? (self theories)
 WHAT'S IMPORTANT? (serve society)
 

