For all we know, our life is the only shot we have at playing in a rich environment, with no intrinsic meaning, and an extrinsic significance which can be attached to it at will.
The stage where we are playing now is a rich, live environment of energy and information, doing its thing and getting (c)older towards a state of enthropic death, or cold nothingness.
As part of this universal cooling process, we have the chance to play our small part in the exchange of information and energy; but if we are to be honest, we should keep in mind that - eventually - everything we do or witness is all tending to nothing.

We just build "castles in the air": many small ordered structures of information/energy/people/money (like companies, nations with rules, organizations with stakeholders) and it's everything inscribed in this temporary reality which is the living universe we live in.
All our activities - including our very existence - are an attempt to deny our death and to deny universal enthropy.

Eventually, everything we build is going to fall apart. This might seem depressing, but it's instead an attempt at acknowledging our finite and meaningless nature.
Once understood, this reality can empower us to just play our role with more consciousness, to do our thing as best as we can do it.

We're here to play music, play arts, dance and stay together under the sky.
People dancing in the moonlight definitely express a truer life purpose than people sitting and arguing over politics.

Along these lines, playing video games actually is not a waste of time, but maybe the only truly meaningful thing we can do here, for our minds to just get even more engaged than in reality.

In fact, if life is about maximising good feelings for the mind (love, happiness, joy, gratitude, forgiveness, mindfulness etc.), this means that we are maximising how the processing of information in our brains "feels": this is our consciousness. Machines process information but cannot feel the processing of information.
In aggregate then, we are maximising our collective consciousness, and that's our life scope- to increase the scope and scale of human consciousness.

This is also why it's a great idea not to take yourself or anything too seriously and why it's important to have a good sense of humor.
