True freedom is felt when one realizes that no conclusion is definite, given the indefinite nature of reality.

Science is not based on observable results of objective, repeatable experiments, nor on the theories that are derived from those experiments: science is based on questioning assumptions which, by definition, are falsifiable.
So when in school we learn that an apple falls from the tree to the ground because of the law of gravity, then we acquire useful knowledge to make sense of the world around us, and we feel intellectually free in pondering why a bigger apple falls even faster on the ground.

But the true free thinker is the one who questions the assumptions further and further: "is the experiment truly repeatable?", "is there any observation bias?", "does the repeatability of the experiment justify the abstarction of a general scientific theory?", "would the same experiment be repeatable outside of our planet? and outside of our observable universe?", "why do we call the apple with the name 'apple'?", "does this all matter?", "why?" and so on...
There are always more questions than answers.

Any conclusion about anything is really just an attempt to consolidate the walls of our "sand castles", including this one of course.

__

I don't need the prize.
I don't need the money, the girls, the mansion, other people's apreciation, respect, admiration, the fame, the glory.
I just need the opportunity to be able to choose how to live.
I need a chance to try my hand at the game of my life, constantly.
I just need the opportunity to play the game.
I don't really want to win the game, I want to play it.
Because winning the game of life is dying.
I want to live.
I want to have an opportunity to play.
That includes having an opportunity to play and win.
That also includes having an opportunity to play and fail.
To even being able to fail is being able to play.

So if you approach a presentation or public speaking engagement just hoping that you will have the chance to say what you feel you have to say, you will deliver an honest and impactful speech.
Hoping that you'll even have the chance to screw up the whole speech in front of everybody is the key.
You realize you are totally free to be who you are and say what you have to say in the way you really want to say it: even if your voice trembles, even if you forget things, if you mis-spell words or if you look ugly.
Anxiety and nerves and self-consciousness don't apply to you: you are having a chance to be yourself, and that is what counts.

This foundational key truth is at the basis of the best approach in life: recognizing that you are even able to live now, is an incredibly precious perspective of gratitude and happiness.
Knowing that, just by being alive and taking chances, you won the lottery of life: losing doesn't apply anymore, as you don't need to win other things.
You just need a shot at life.
You have nothing to lose.

Now go do what you want: speak up at your job, to your spouse, to your family and parents and be 100% honest.
Now go do what you feel you have to do, for yourself.
You will feel that you are able to express your gifts and now you are empowered to make your mark.
Really all of us would benefit immensely because of your example.
