Scientific literature nowadays, especially neuroscience and human behavioral biology, does not sustain the concept of free will.
In fact, it does not allow any space or justification for it.
Free will is defined as "the ability to choose between different possible courses of action unimpeded" (Wikipedia).
However, I do not think this is a strong definition, because an individual with the ability to choose between different courses of action is still necessarily inscribed in any causality process of happenings – either deterministic or random –, of which this "ability to choose" is a part of.

In fact, by my attempting to think independently about this, I come to define free will as the hypothetical possibility of a subject to being able and free to have chosen deliberately any option other than the one which the subject, at one point, chooses.
For me, free will makes sense as a retrospective concept, to see if there is any space for a free, subjective determination of reality between a process of happenings (deterministic and/or random) which are not caused by choices independently taken by the same subject.
In other words, whenever you are presented with a choice (e.g. grey or blue) and you choose one option, then you have free will when you could have chosen - in a free way - the other option.
And I would argue that, because of the very nature of retrospective concepts, with free will we are just re-interpreting the past by adding an arbitrary ability to interfere with the real conditions that made the choice possible in the first place.

Neuroscience found there is a time-lag between the firing of neurons originating a thought and us being conscious about having that thought, and there could lie the window of possibility for a subjective  and independent authorship of reality to take place.
This phenomenon is known as the "postdictive illusion of choice"
The problem here is the “independent” adjective attributed to that subjective ability to choose.
There is a time-lag occuring during which external information reaches our perceptions and then our conscious awareness.
Because of this time-lag between our consciousness and external reality, our brain makes up for the delay by infering an anticipation of information that has yet to reach awareness but has already been perceived subconsciously.

In fact, no choice can be taken independently or without the influence of neurological chemistry, genetic factors, factors originated during fetal development of the individual, cultural and environmental factors, biological factors of the human species and the conditions of the Universe we live in.
Neither pure determinism, nor pure randomness, nor any combination of the two, allows for "free will" to make sense.

Free will is a myth, an illusion. And it is a stubborn one, because it is the rational premise for justifying subjective judgment of any sorts: from good and bad, to just and unjust.
Free will makes room for the (apparently) legitimate ability to subjectively judge things.
It is therefore at the basis of hatred as well as praise.
It is at the basis of criminal justice and appreciation of things.

Nonetheless, annihilating free will does not decrease the legitimacy of personal willpower or grit or determination, as these factors continue to be relevant as ever in playing a role (causal or casual) in what happens.
Annihilating free will does not annihilate a sense of self-authorship, self-determination and personal agency.
It's true that I am not an independent, free agent, but this does not mean that I don't have agency over my life.
Human agency is very prominent in living life.

In a world where people - rightfully - don't believe in free will, there is no basis for condemning criminals (as they are not directly imputable for any bad actions), nor for awarding prices or celebrating individual talents or collective achievements.
It would be a very different world than the one we live in right now, both culturally and actually. It would be a world where people just be themselves and live their lives, being more understanding of the reasons behind bad actions from bad people, and thus a more compassionate world.

So we come to be aware of the fact that we are not the actors in the movie of our lives: we really are closer to being like the spectators watching the movie unfold.
But we are not sitting at the cinema: we are inside the movie itself.
Also, we may just be the spectators and not really the actors of our lives, but we are the sort of spectators who can watch the movie unfold and, at the same time, be very aware of the fact that we are just in the spectator seat and not really in the driver’s seat – no matter how engaging reality is for the mind.
But the annihilation of free will does not mean the annihilation of awareness.
In other words, as spectators of reality, we can be aware that we are being the spectators, at which point we become aware of the cinema environment we are in, which then indicates that we are the space of possibility for anything to exist in the first place - the actors, the movie, the spectators, the cinema and the illusory reality where all of this can take place.

I am also convinced that destiny is a myth, in so we do have agency over the future.

In this sense, acknowledging other realizations (the self is a space of awareness and love-consciousness), we can suddenly come to the realization that this moment that you are reading these words and thinking and just being is the place where you exist.
This place is not located in your head, nor in your heart: it is not a physical place contained inside the physical world where your body is immersed.

This place is an awareness point, or better an awareness level or "state", possibly configured as the space in which everything happens.
