They say our political inclinations mostly come from our relationship with our own father, because he was the first authority figure which gave the primary shape to our own sensibility for setting the right balance between chaos and order.
In politics, chaos is freedom and order is authority.
As with most things that map along a spectrum, extremes in politics are a sign of a poor balance in the mind: too much skewed towards either chaos (anarchy) or order (totalitarism).

For me, I value individual freedom.
I stand for freedom and liberty, free expression of the individual, liberalism, liberism and libertarianism; but in order to avoid the bad effects of too much freedom (anarchism), I choose to simpathize with conservatism's sane and ordered frame of mind.
In fact, as conservatives know, the first and necessary condition for enjoying freedom is to contain it.
Histroy has shown us, time and again, that people can enjoy freedom only when it is regulated, for its extreme expressions (i.e. anarchism) to be avoided.

**I endorse people who engage in independent critical thinking and take decisive resolute actions with integrity.**

With these two simple guiding principles, it is not difficult for me to discern good and bad, or strong and weak, in politics.

I stand for critical thinking as the opposite of dogma: everything is up for critical re-discussion.
Being able to rediscuss and change the Constitution, national borders, international treaties, immigration policy, economic or fiscal policies: this is good.
Holding on to some time-tested values such as "family", "religion", "nation" or "God" and to avoid critical thinking around them: this is bad and stupid.

When choosing a political party to vote, I take into consideration the proposed political program as much as the character of the leader.
I consider decisive characters to be the ideal political leaders: charismatic individuals who are not afraid to take resolute action, at all given times.
I want a competent and resolute leader who will, with the highest integrity, both say what they do and do what they say.
This means I will only support a leader who has a clear and strong vision for the future: it is the only way that makes sense.

I do support such leaders, when I see them.
They are rare in politics, because true strength and integrity are rare traits in any individual.
If I don't see one at a given moment, I am sure I would feel compelled to act accordingly.
