I think that the flow of time is a convenient sense-making framework for our minds, which crave to see movement, stories and drama.
I think time - not the flow of time - is an arbitrary variable of the universal geometry of reality.

**I entertain the hypothesis that the universe is a fixed geometric "essence" which exists by itself: without change, without movement, without time, without meaning, without a life story.**
Now, all the things we think about when we think of reality - change, movement, time, life, meaning - are all constructs of our sense-making minds.
Observing reality through our minds and trying to make sense of it, we see patterns, because that is just how our mind operates.
Out of the chaos of information that is reality, patterns are a way for our minds to generate structure and order: here we see things moving through space, changing over time, respecting some physical universal laws and living their own lives, sometimes even meaningful lives.

That is what the mind sees because that is what the mind is looking for, because that's how the mind works.
The scientific method is less prone to the subjective, faulty perception of the sense-making mind.
Science suggests the structure of reality is a multi-dimensional geometric logic, of which the mind can merely observe and measure, and perhaps even understand, only parts of, throguh its own time-generating ways of sense-making.

What I suggest is that reality is a fixed, multi-dimensional geometric thing.
This geometric thing would involve a design which, to us, would look like spirals and linear patterns, and is approachable for our understanding through the language of mathematics.
That logic, however coherent, strong or orderly we might perceive it, does not necessarily respect any of our own minds' sense-making attributes of age, movement, distance or order.
To the degree that reality does respect those attributes, reality is perceiving itself through our mind.

We are stuck in 3 dimensions. We can only experience reality at this level, through our sense-making minds.
We simply cannot escape from the conditions we live in, nor can we escape from the nature of who we are.

Only through our imagination can we access more dimensions than 3.
We can access new worlds.
And the gateways or access points to any new world exist - necessarily - in this world, in this 3-dimensional perspective of reality.
These gateways, we might call them portals: doors we can find in this world, which when opened, open us up to new dimensions, new perspectives, and can give us access to a whole new experience of reality.
In our minds, irrationality is a portal: it is accessible in a rational world and brings us from the rational world to an irrational one, where things don't have to make sense necessarily as they did before.
Portals can be found in many of our stories: inception, harry potter's platform 9 and 3/4s, alice in wonderland's little door in the garden, the secret life of walter mitty, charlie and the chocolate factory, psycho-active substances like LSD, dreams, or just through our own imagination.
In these stories, portals are wardrobes, a looking glass, a rabbit hole, a platform in the train station, and so on.
In mathemathics, a good example of a portal is the square root of negative 1: it exists within the realm of real numbers, and it brings us to a whole new dimension of imaginary numbers.
Another example might be virtual reality headsets: we can wear them, and suddenly our mind is overwhelmed with new logics of information which are other-worldly.

So to sum up, I think reality is a fixed geometrical structure, and it is our sense-making mind that generates time and movement to see more patterns.
Rationality is about making order out of what our mind originally has to deal with, which is a choatic universe of information.
In this sense, science is the best tool for observation and understanding of the mind-generated order.

We should not only think rationally, but also feel emotionally, and experiment with new ways of consciously perceiving reality, if what our minds are for is really to make sense of it all.

But there is another way for us to navigate through reality's multi-dimensional and multi-variable geometrical essence.
Through portals, we can jump to new worlds and see reality from a totally new perspective.
We can imagine - and therefore exist in - new worlds: real worlds.
We can even create such new worlds, as in the example of video-games, movies and novels.

So we do we secretly crave altenate universes?
We do we tell ourselves so many stories where we live i an ordinary world, we find a portal, we go through it and access a whole new world, then we come back into the ordinary world and tell the story of our adventure to our fellow ordinary humans?
Is this "portal story" a way for our minds to stretch the imagination and be distracted?
Is this a way for us to relax from the everyday ordinary and logical thinking as when we go to sleep and come back every morning to the ordinary world?
Or is this a metaphor for what we, deep down, really believe to be a real thing: that there are real portals in this world, that we stopped looking for them and that we need to look for them, we need to find them, go through the door, access a new world and explore it, to then come back and tell our story.

We stopped looking for the portal, when instead we should keep looking.
**When we know how to look for them, portals are everywhere around us.**
We can find portals in nature, like psycho-active chemicals, or we create them ourselves, like art or a spaceship.
Any means of transport can bring you to a new place: your car could be a portal, if you decide to drive through the continent and never look back.
A submarine can be our portal to the unexplored underwater world; a train can be our portal to a new city or country, a boat or an airplane is our portal to a new country or continent, a spaceship is our portal to a new planet or solar system.
Portals are physical, because we live in a physical 3D world.
Most recently, we found an exit from this physical world through the internet, where we can live in a digital world.
So your smartphone or any tech device is a portal to a digital world: the internet.
Your joystick or VR headset is a portal to a growing number of real-time, multi-player, photo-realistic video games.

We should keep looking for portals, for the secret gates, because they are a way to expand our perception of reality, to explore and stay alive.
