

Openness (96th percentile)
I think in abstract, complex ways. I tend to be imaginative, creative, adventurous and intellectual.
I enjoy playing with ideas and discovering novel experiences. I like the unkown.
I enjoy art and like original and complex forms of self-expression, like video-logs, singing, dancing, painting and sculpture, as well as ranting.
I enjoy novelty, variety, and change. I am curious, imaginative, and creative.
I am intellectually curious, appreciative of art, and sensitive to beauty.
I tend to be aware of my feelings and tend to think and act in individualistic and nonconforming ways, typical of intellectual figures.
I have a facility for thinking in symbols and abstractions far removed from concrete experience.
In my case, this symbolic cognition has not taken the form of mathematical, artistic, metaphorical use of language, music composition or performance, or one of the many visual or performing arts.
But instead has taken the form of logical, spatial/geometric thinking and very abstract ideas.
I have very broad interests in abstract and complex topics, such as philosofy, physics and psychology.
I consider myself mature psychologically.
Imagination: often the real world can be too plain and ordinary, so the use of fantasy is a way of creating a richer, more interesting world.
Artistic interests: I love beauty, both in art and in nature. I become easily involved and absorbed in artistic and natural events, like sunsets or flowers, or green areas with a course of water nearby. I am not necessarily artistically trained nor talented. I appreciate both natural and artificial beauty. I enjoy a high aesthetic sensitivity and interest in the arts.
Emotionality: I tend not to express my emotions openly to most people, as I need a close and strong bond of trust with a very select few individuals to be able to share my emotions unfiltered.
Adventurousness: I am very eager to try new activities, although I am not naturally prone to travel to foreign lands as most people seem to be. I really like to change my work/home commute everyday, as well as change my breakfast and lunch as much as possible, taking new options just because they are different than usual. I am not only comfortable with change, I mostly seek out change to a routine.
Intellect: Intellect and artistic interests are the two most important, central aspects of openness to experience. I love to play with ideas. I am very open-minded to new and unusual ideas and like to debate intellectual issues. I enjoy reading about complex abstract ideas and theories about people, society and nature. I have very high regard for serious intellectual endeavours in disciplines such as philosophy, physics and psychology. I scored high in intelligence tests in the past and I am told I am smart.
Psychological liberalism: I am mostly ready to challenge authority and conventional ways of doing things. On the other hand, I recognize and appreciate the solid and reliable stability and security brought by comforming to the rules of finite games. I appreciate chaos in artistic expression, not in people behaviours and the organization of society. I like chaos in ideas, not in people.


