The individual mind is the single most dense unit of information and coherent biological functionality there is.
This is why there is nothing more important and meaningful than you.
Not your children, not your partner, not your family, not your friends, not some idol you made up: you.

For a second, think about the worst news you could wake up to tomorrow.
A family member dies or is seriously ill? Does it hurt? Why?
That is only hurting your own memories and affections about them.
It is hurting because the mental models and expectations about them you have built in your own mind are suddenly disrupted in a radical and real way.
They do not exist but in your own mind: this is always true.

We are only as free as the cages we live in.
If you don't build yourself a cage, someone else will gladly put you in theirs.

Freedom can only be enjoyed when constrained.
True freedom lies in the self-aware, disciplined engagement in one's life activities to be bounded by rules, constraints, restrictions and prohibitions.
The question is: who is building the cages you play in?

Whoever controls digital information has unparalleled power to constantly define what your cage is.

Privacy has become a topic of relevance because information is now continuously gathered in the most intimate and private confinements of our lives.
In the information age, digital surveillance is alive and well.
Your phone has ears and eyes that are constantly receptive, even when you turn the device off, and its brain is much bigger and more efficient than yours: everything is recorded and stored for as long as silicon chips and servers are working and preserved at cold temperatures.

Saying you have nothing to hide is stupid.
Because the information that is collected from you is used to keep your attention longer: in this time your brain is fed information that it will use to make decisions, big and small.
So when you share private information in chats, social media, or even when your phone is turned off in you pocket, you are giving away the power to guide your thinking, beliefs, actions: ultimately, your self.

The digital information you feed your brain everyday, directly or indirectly, is what primarily informs your decisions, big and small.
That digital information, when tied to machine learning models for artificial intelligence, like recommendation engines in social media, search and the news, is not being offered following criteria of innocence, impartiality, truth, or even usefulness: it is offered to you based on what will keep your attention and suck your time the most.

Your attention is everything.

So how much less independence, less control and less freedom are you willing to give away in exchange for more entertainement and more surveillance from supercomputers?
This does not sound like a good bargain, nor a fair one.

From your point of view (from which you can never escape), privacy should not be seen as a right, as there is no "right" to be demanded to someonelse: this implies you see yourself as a victim.
If you have some dignity, self-awareness and real respect for who you are, you see yourself as powerful: you decide to be morally free, just and strong because you are.
What some people call "*rights* for the community" are really *personal* **duties** you (no one else) have the power to shape in the way you build your own worldview and conduct your own behaviour everyday.

Being responsible means not delegating power away.
There are no rights, there are only personal moral duties.

Some people realize that privacy is important, because the freedom to be yourself is important and because self-direction (the autonomy to make decisions and shape your worldview) is important.

A few people decide to act and fight for this belief.
But to fight does not mean to act as the victims of Big Tech companies or authoritarian governments, not to hold signs of protest and shout in chorus in the streets for the "*right*" to privacy that has been denied to you, or against the bad rich capitalists: this is useless theatre, not real fight.

The way you fight is you defend against external threats and you create or become something that will annihilate or render obsolete the powers of your enemies.

Defend yourself:
- delete mainstream social media accounts
- redirect your traffic anonymously through VPNs and the Tor network
- only use E2E-encrypted chats and calls

Create something new:
- build and use open source software and applications
- build and use decentralized networks

