The past is never past, because it lives within the present mind.
Nothing is to be considered finally set in stone, even in the past, because that stone - or any canvas of reality - is always here for the ever-shifting perception of the ever-present mind.

Not even the historical happenings of centuries ago are unchangeable, because their canvas is not the prints of history books, not the photographs, not the bits in digital archives of encyclopedia pages, not even the lived moments of the times when they happened: their canvas is in the present mind, always here in a shifting perception.

The perception is always changing in the here-and-now because it's a necessity.

Looking onwards with our imagination to times never passed and never seen, the future can only appear different from now by definition.
But the ending point of our ever-present future is our death, individually as we cease to be alive or collectively as we extinguish the collective consciousness of the universe by means of a natural process of cosmological death.

Eventually all is set to meet its end.
Our brief journeys of alive moments under the sun are all we have, even when we work towards lengthening our lifespans biologically or perceptually by staying young and present with the mind.


_
It is all a mirror. There is symmetry everywhere, in the constituent multidimensionality of reality. Things don't move, perspective does.
Everything is fixed. The only thing that seems to defy this is the fantasy, dream, imagination, will, intention, desire of consciousness, which points towards something, shifting the perspective with which to see everything around in the eternal present moment, thereby creating a sense of motion, or things happening, moving in space, changing, ageing in time. Therefore the illusion of time.

https://www.quantamagazine.org/einstein-symmetry-and-the-future-of-physics-20190626/

All is energy. A human being is just a complex pattern of energy, just like everything else in the physical realm.
Devoid of any content, I am.
Space-time is a construct of the mind, it does not actually exist in the physical realm. (Einstein)
"What is this mind of ours: what are these atoms with consciousness? Last week’s potatoes!" - Richard Feynman

If space-time is not so fundamental, relationship is.
The relationship between space-time and consciousness.


