Man has always wanted to search for something beyond himself, beyond his time and beyond what he can experience through the senses.
The search for a *deeper truth* has sparked the passion for looking deeper into the world with science, and deeper into the science with philosophy.
Wether it is through studying the geology of the planet, the evolution of animal species, the mathematical "source code" of reality, or by looking deeper inwardly, or by building electronic minds and virtual worlds, we are trying to uncover the mistery of it all.

That *deeper truth*, which orients so much of what we do, is generally accepted to be directionally pointing to the frequency of unconditional love, peace of mind, deep silence, eternity (timelessness) and unity (selflessness).

But once you recognize it, you miss it.

He who knows he loves does not know love, because love is selfless.
He who knows he is silent does not know silence, because silence is selfless.
He who knows he is real does not know reality, because reality is selfless.
He who knows he is aware does not know awereness, because awereness is selfless.

No mind, no self, no being can deny itself as its way into timelessness or selflessness.

The dead is silent, as he does not know he is.

The paradox of reality is too strong for the mind to grasp or bear, thus we struggle in our life-search walking near the edge of the paradox, staring all along into the abiss - only to finally fall and achieve the sacred peace.

But are we really *just* inexorably walking towards our death?
Is our life just a dramatic tragedy of searching along the temporal direction toward entropic equilibrium?
Is that timelessness and selflessness to be found only outside of this life?

Well, yes, but to go outside you don't need to be dead.
All along your same life path, there can be exit doors along the way and you need to know how to look to find them.

For example, you might ask yourself: where is timelessness?
If you think of picking an answer, it takes time. So timelessness seems to not be there.
If you just know the answer as you're asking the question, that did not take any time by definition.
Thus timelessness is really everywhere the moment you wholly shift perspective.

Timelessness is here and now, by virtue of necessity.
The ultimate paradox is that the *sacred peace* cannot be anywhere - but here.

So just *know* that all is one, timeless, selfless, silent, peaceful.
