In the geometry of reality, some points are much more interesting than most others.
Rare, single points where reality resolves itself in interesting ways: a scapegoat, a saddle point, a portal.

A scapegoat is usually the weakest member of a community (be it a group of people or ideas): the single member which appears less equal than everybody else.
To everybody else, its distance from the average is singular enough to allow for unsolicited attacks to a practical target.
The scapegoat appears as the single member which is most vulnerable to coordinated attacks from within its group, thus - being a single member - unlikely to effectively oppose resistance against any multi-directional (not necessarily simultaneous) attacks towards it.
Precisely for this perceived *absolute weakness* within its group, the scapegoat is the only single member in the group who is possibly capable of resolving all the violence within the group by directing it and taking the blame on itself.
Who appears to be so strong a member as to be able to take on itself alone all the violence combined from within the group is a candidate scapegoat.

If you are complaining about anything and blaming somebody else, you know who you are: just another anonimous, uninteresting, unimportant, forgettable and totally negligible member of the community you found yourself in.
The really interesting people, as the interesting ideas, are usually scapegoats.

A saddle point is the one point where, by hitting "rock bottom", you find yourself standing on the peak of a mountain.
A mountain pass is the lowest point between two mountain peaks which can only be reached by climbing the full altitude the local mountain peak.
A horseback is literally where a saddle point is found: riding a horse, you sit on the lowest point of its back and on the highest point of its torso.
The chaotic movement of the water can show local surface points where the trough of a wave coincides with the perpendicular crest of another.

From its longitudinal or latitudinal perspective, the bi-dimensionality of saddle points is the foundation for making an intersection of curves on perpendicular planes interesting at all.
In fact, saddle points are only a particular example of multi-dimensional intersections.

A portal is...

Almost by definition, these rare points found in reality are the precise locations where perspective is shifted: the moments of awe.
If at first glance they seem logical contradictions, through the embracing glance of a shifting perspective, the whole mind can recognize that paradoxes are the turning points of reality.
