A foundational axiom of my worldview is this: **the flow of time is an illusion**.

I admit I sometimes forget it, because my everyday life has schedules and routine in it, so I conventionally choose to adapt to the clock and calendar system pretty much everybody uses to measure the passing of time.

For me time does exist, as the directionality of duration: an arbitrary variable which we use to quickly interpret reality and make sense of it.
But the characterization of time with its absolute, objective, measurable and irreversible flowing is, indeed, a "stubbornly persistent illusion" (Einsten).

Life is a one-player game, which each of us plays inside of his own subjective conscious experience.
When you play well at the game of life, everything flows effortlessly and you feel one with your present circumstances.
This is called flow.
This flow is a beautiful modality of experiencing your consciousness and its contents: time is out of the equation.

In fact, all psychological suffering is entirely based on the illusory separation of past, present and future, as well as on the illusory separation of separate bodies inside a 3D environment.
These two mental models, of separation in time and in space, are convenient as labels for our sense-making minds.
But Nature knows nothing of these conceptual frames of separation.
To paraphrase from Richard Feynman, one thing is knowing the name of something, another thing is knowing something.

We only live in the present.
This inescapable truth is easily forgotten when living everyday life: we like "remembering" the past and "planning" the future.
But *everything* we ever had or will ever have is right here, right now.
The key word is "everything": even what appears to be in other places is *here*, inside the conscious mind, and even what appears to be in the distant past or in the distant future is actually entirely happening now in the conscious experience.

**Any thought implies *distance* and *duration* for anything to exist in the mind.**

When you - effortlessly, but consciously - feel mindful of all the characteristics of the present moment, your attention is channeled away from any tangent stories about the "past" or the "future": leaving only one place for your attention to stay: right here, right now.

Now the mind is working efficiently, as it is channeled and focused, feeling more receptive to multiple inputs and ready to make new connections.
Opportunity and creativity are born here, as well as enjoyment of one's conscious experience and a sense of self-fulfillment.

So how can you live life if time really doesn't pass?

Well, instead of the flow of time, **we simply choose another variable to mentally extrapolate from the mind and use it explicitly to view and describe our conscious experience, and act *as* it (not *in* it).**

Since we are conceptually free, now, from the known conventions, why not choose something good?
What about we start conceiving everything, now, from the unifying perspective of *love*?
