Does God exist? we don't know.

Do I believe in God? This is a great question.
This question acknowledges that God's existence is much less a logical or objective truth, and much more a holistic and subjective one.

There is an infinite richness, beauty, validity, importance and meaning to illogical thoughts.
Things like imagination, fears, dreams, belief and love are not strictly logical or rational.

In fact, the least rational of all is faith.
We say we "fall in love", or we "take a leap of faith": the acts of falling or taking a leap into the unkown are fundamentally irrational and risky things to do.

God's existence is not a matter of objective reason: it is a matter of subjective conscious experience.
Like love, faith is infinitely powerful and yes, it is irrational - and there lies its power.

Faith in God means faith in life, destiny, nature, time, cirumstances, all that is grander and uncontrollable by the subjective experiencer.
And from this subjective experiencer point of view - which is necessarily the only true point of view - belief in an idea can be so powerful as to become faith: the unquestionable trust in something grander and uncontrollable.
This trust in the unknown, this faith, can grow stronger overtime - because of being reinforced and confirmed all the time by ascribing everything that is perceived as outside one's control as a function of God - and gradually (or suddenly) solidify what is perceived as - and therefore is - knowledge of truth.

This approach to one's worldview and subjective conscious experience shapes one's mind and actions, dignifies the significance of one's beliefs and actions in a World where things outside one's control have a major, continuous, persistent impact on one's life - and ultimately gives meaning to life.

So, at this point: who is smarter? the guy who holds onto logic and reason to attempt to explain something objectively or the guy who surrenders to the reality of irrational and uncontrollable forces shaping all things, thus choosing to see the unkown, accept it and inscribe everything into it?
________


The great human lives have faith in God.

The reason is deep, abstract and simple: the individual will to live is as strong as the faith in a greater power of life to realize it.

The coming of fate conduces to seeing why God exists.
It takes perspective to hope, believe, have faith and know that fate is here.
Fate coming, destiny being unrolled under the present, the self actualizing, reality unfolding, things being consciously alive manifest a deeper, grander truth.
What that truth is is God being here now.
The grander the scheme of ideas, the weaker the words are to grasp it, the more meaningful the idea.
God.
It's here.

In fact, God being here, we are it.
