To strive to achieve ambitiously stretched goals through overcoming fears, risks and challenges, or to surrender, let go of the need to prove oneself and be content with the status quo?

There appears to be a dichotomy.
To accept or challenge the status quo?
To be content and grateful, or to advance and achieve new limits?
To make things happen, or to let things happen?

The two opposite approaches can only be reconciled by a new overarching framework: they are part of the same process.
Two sides of the same coin.
In order to change something or build something new, it is a necessary condition to first recognize, acknowledge and accept the status quo as it is.
This is so because any actuable alternative to the status quo has to start from it.
Any future scenario to be realizable has to be rooted in the actual present.
So much so, that the best available and clear approximation of any future moment is the present moment - more so the nearest it is to now.
The fundamental forces, laws and principles that live in the present moment carry their inertia (even immutability) into any future moment, and the change happens as a minimal percentage of the total composition of reality, which fundamentally remains the same.

Should one try to achieve any of the personal goals one can have for himself?
Or should one instead allow himself to pause, relax, wait, listen to the moment, allow things to come into happening - some will pass easily, some will be strongly felt - and follow the urge to express oneself as

So it is with one's self.
Instead of trying to achieve some arbitrary external goal that may be copied from others and not necessarily genuinely personal, listen for your intrinsiccally-motivated personal authenticity to shine and just let it out gracefully.
Be true to yourself, allow the truth to come out, express it gracefully, if you need to edit the delivery when saring to others, only add kindness to the truth.

Once you have grown up from trying some different things, having come to know your evolving self, see how some things are fundamental to who you are.
Discover these things, see them, listen to them, feel them, accept them, love them.
It's who you are. It's your self. It's your truth.

Don't try to be something you are not, don't try to do things that are not true expressions of you. Don't lie to yourself.
Rather, just do the things that want to come out of you. Let them come out.
This means to know yourself and be yourself. This is having a child's mind. This is the most natural thing in the world. This is the way of Nature.

Don't lie. Don't panic. Don't be evil. Don't try.

Be honest, be brave, be kind, be yourself.
