Scientific literature nowadays, especially neuroscience and human behavioural biology, does not sustain the concept of free will.
I would define free will is defined as "the ability to choose between different possible courses of action unimpeded" (Wikipedia).
But I would argue that, hypothetically, in a purely deterministic world, an individual with the ability to choose between different courses of action is still necessarily inscribed in a causality process of happenings, of which this "ability to choose" is a part of.
In fact, by my attempting to think independently about this, I would define free will as the hypothetical possibility of a subject to being able and free to have chosen deliberately any option other than the one which the subject, at one point, chose.
For me free will makes sense as a retrospective concept, to see if there is any space for a free, subjective determination of reality between a process of happenings (deterministic and/or random) which are not caused by choices taken by the same subject.

In other words, whenever you are presented with a choice (eg. grey or blue) and you choose one option, then you have free will when you could have chosen - in a free way - the other option.

There is an argument for a time-lag between a and b where a conscious subjective authorship has the chance to take place.

Neither pure determinism, nor pure randomness, nor any combination of the two, allows for "free will" to make sense.
Free will is a myth. And it is a stubborn one, because it is the rational premise for justifying subjective judgement of any sorts: from good and bad, to just and unjust.
Free will makes room for the (apparently) legitimate ability to subjectively judge things. It is therefore at the basis of hatred as well as praise.
It is at the basis of criminal justice and appreciation of things.

Nonetheless, anihilating free will does not decrease the legitimacy of personal willpower or grit or determination, as these factors continue to be relevant as ever in playing a role (causal or casual) in what happens.
Anihilating free will does not anihilate a sense of self-authorship, self-determination and personal agency.

In a world where people - rightfully - don't believe in free will, there is no basis for condemning criminals (as they are not directly imputable for any bad actions), nor for awarding prices or celebrating individual talents or collective achievements.
It would be a very different world than the one we live in right now, both culturally and actually. It would be a world where people just be themselves and live their lives.
It would be a world where people are more understanding of the reasons behind bad actions from bad people, thus a more compassionate world.

We are not the actors in the movie of our lives: we really are more the spectators.
But the anihilation of free will does not mean the anihilation of awareness.
We may just be spectators, but we at least can be aware that we are at the cinema.
In other words, as spectators of reality, we can be aware that we are being the spectators, at which point we become aware of the cinema environment we are in, which then indicates that we are the space of possibility for anything to exist.

I am also convinced that destiny is a myth, in so we do have agency over the future.

In this sense, ackowledging other realizations (the self is a space of awareness and love-consciousness), we can suddenly come to the realization that this moment that you are reading these words and thinking and just being is the place where you exist.
This place is not located in your head, nor in your heart: it is not a physical place contained inside the physical world where your body is immersed.

This place is an awareness point, or better an awareness level or "state", possibly configured as the space in which everything happens.
